README.md, before:

# Memorize Pronunciation

Improve your English pronunciation by listening, repeating, and recording yourself. Add new words, track progress, and review with cards.

## Home Page

* Search for a word
* Add a new word
* Delete a word
* Listen to the pronunciation of any word
* Mark words as known or reset learning with a checkbox
* Copy words directly from any table

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/home.gif" alt="Home page" height="600">
</p>

## Cards Page

* Review word cards
* Listen to the pronunciation of any word
* Record your pronunciation and listen to the recorded audio
* Mark words as known or reset learning
* Navigate using the keyboard
* Copy words directly from the table

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/cards.gif" alt="Cards page" height="600">
</p>

## Create Page

* Create list of words, enter one word per line
* Strip unnecessary characters from the list
* Skip duplicates

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/create.gif" alt="Create page" height="600">
</p>

## More Features

* Switch between light and dark themes
* Mobile-friendly responsive design

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/mobile.png" alt="Mobile view with dark theme" height="600">
</p>

## Developing

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Run tests:

```bash
npm run test
```

## Building

Create a production version of your app in `.svetle-kit/output` folder:

```bash
npm run build
```

Preview the production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

## Certificate

Features like microphone access require both **HTTPS** and  **user permissions**. Mobile browsers  **only allow microphone access over `https://` or `localhost`** .

1. Run the app with `server.host: true` set in the `vite.config.ts` file. This will allow Vite to bind to all available network interfaces. Check the terminal output to find the list of network IPs accessible from other devices on your local network.
2. Choose your preferred local IP (e.g. 192.168.100.92) and update your `vite.config.ts` config:

```ts
server: {
  host: '192.168.100.92',
  port: 5173,
}
```

3. Install mkcert on your computer
4. Set up your local certificate authority:

```bash
mkcert -install
```

This command installs a local trusted certificate authority (CA) on your development machine, which is required to generate trusted HTTPS certificates. Using trusted HTTPS certificates prevents your site from showing dangerous site warnings **in Chrome browser** (it may not work for other browsers).

5. Generate an HTTPS certificate for your development IP:

```bash
mkcert 192.168.100.92
```

This will generate two files:

* 192.168.100.92.pem
* 192.168.100.92-key.pem

6. Place these certificate files in a `certificate/` folder, and configure your Vite dev server to use them in `vite.config.ts`:

```ts
import fs from 'fs';

server: {
  host: '192.168.100.92',
  port: 5173,
  https: {
    key: fs.readFileSync('certificate/192.168.100.92-key.pem'),
    cert: fs.readFileSync('certificate/192.168.100.92.pem')
  }
}
```

7. Now, when you run the app with `npm run dev`, you can access it securely from other devices on your network via:

```bash
https://192.168.100.92:5173
```

## Run the Production Server Locally on MacOS

Commit message:

Update README with hostname info

README.md, after:

# Memorize Pronunciation

Improve your English pronunciation by listening, repeating, and recording yourself. Add new words, track progress, and review with cards.

## Home Page

* Search for a word
* Add a new word
* Delete a word
* Listen to the pronunciation of any word
* Mark words as known or reset learning with a checkbox
* Copy words directly from any table

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/home.gif" alt="Home page" height="600">
</p>

## Cards Page

* Review word cards
* Listen to the pronunciation of any word
* Record your pronunciation and listen to the recorded audio
* Mark words as known or reset learning
* Navigate using the keyboard
* Copy words directly from the table

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/cards.gif" alt="Cards page" height="600">
</p>

## Create Page

* Create list of words, enter one word per line
* Strip unnecessary characters from the list
* Skip duplicates

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/create.gif" alt="Create page" height="600">
</p>

## More Features

* Switch between light and dark themes
* Mobile-friendly responsive design

<p align="center">
<img src="image/README/mobile.png" alt="Mobile view with dark theme" height="600">
</p>

## Developing

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Run tests:

```bash
npm run test
```

## Building

Create a production version of your app in `.svetle-kit/output` folder:

```bash
npm run build
```

Preview the production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

## Certificate

Features like microphone access require both **HTTPS** and  **user permissions**. Mobile browsers  **only allow microphone access over `https://` or `localhost`** .

1. Run the app with `server.host: true` set in the `vite.config.ts` file. This will allow Vite to bind to all available network interfaces. Check the terminal output to find the list of network IPs accessible from other devices on your local network.
2. Choose your preferred local IP (e.g. 192.168.100.92) and update your `vite.config.ts` config:

```ts
server: {
  host: '192.168.100.92',
  port: 5173,
}
```

3. Install mkcert on your computer
4. Set up your local certificate authority:

```bash
mkcert -install
```

This command installs a local trusted certificate authority (CA) on your development machine, which is required to generate trusted HTTPS certificates. Using trusted HTTPS certificates prevents your site from showing dangerous site warnings **in Chrome browser** (it may not work for other browsers).

5. Generate an HTTPS certificate for your development IP:

```bash
mkcert 192.168.100.92
```

This will generate two files:

* 192.168.100.92.pem
* 192.168.100.92-key.pem

6. Place these certificate files in a `certificate/` folder, and configure your Vite dev server to use them in `vite.config.ts`:

```ts
import fs from 'fs';

server: {
  host: '192.168.100.92',
  port: 5173,
  https: {
    key: fs.readFileSync('certificate/192.168.100.92-key.pem'),
    cert: fs.readFileSync('certificate/192.168.100.92.pem')
  }
}
```

7. Now, when you run the app with `npm run dev`, you can access it securely from other devices on your network via:

```bash
https://192.168.100.92:5173
```
## Hostname as URL

Set hostname of your computer, e.g. on MacOS you can change it in Settings > Sharing > Local hostname.

For example, for `my-computer.local` hostname you'll be able to open site from other devices using this URL

```bash
https://my-computer.local:5173
```

## Local Server on MacOS
